#Level 1
Retro Engines - Allows equipped ships to travel at 1 parsec per turn and gives a maximum number of movement squares in space combat of 1.
#Level 2
Hydrogen Fuel Cells - Allows all ships to move a distance of 4 away from the owner's colonies.
#Level 5
Deuterium Fuel Cells - Allows all ships to move a distance of 5 away from the owner's colonies.
#Level 6
Nuclear Engines - Allows equipped ships to travel at 2 parsecs per turn and gives a maximum number of movement squares in space combat of 1.
#Level 9
Irridium Fuel Cells - Allows all ships to move a distance of 6 away from the owner's colonies.
#Level 10
Inertial Stabilizer - Increases the maneuverability rating of the equipped ship by 2 and increases the maximum number of movement squares in space combat by 1.
#Level 12
Sub Light Drives - Allows equipped ships to travel at 3 parsecs per turn and gives a maximum number of movement squares in space combat of 1.
#Level 14
Dotomite Crystals - Allows all ships to move a distance of 7 away from the owner's colonies.
#Level 16
Energy Pulsar - Deals 5 damage to all adjacent and diagonally adjacent ships plus 1 damage per 2 attacking ships.
#Level 18
Fusion Drives - Allows equipped ships to travel at 4 parsecs per turn and gives a maximum number of movement squares in space combat of 2.
#Level 19
Uridium Fuel Cells - Allows all ships to move a distance of 8 away from the owner's colonies.
#Level 20
Warp Dissipator - Ship special that reduces the defender's maneuverability rating by 0 - 1 per turn.
#Level 23
Reajax II Fuel Cells - Allows all ships to move a distance of 9 away from the owner's colonies.
#Level 24
Impulse Drives - Allows equipped ships to travel at 5 parsecs per turn and gives a maximum number of movement squares in space combat of 2.
#Level 27
Intergalactic Star Gates - Ships can travel between any colonies controlled by the owner that have star gates in 1 turn. Costs 3000 BCs to create. Constructed as if it were a ship design.
#Level 29
Trilithium Crystals - Allows all ships to move a distance of 10 away from the owner's colonies.
#Level 30
Ion Drives - Allows equipped ships to travel at 6 parsecs per turn and gives a maximum number of movement squares in space combat of 3.
#Level 34
High Energy Focus - Increases the attack range of all the direct fire weapons on the equipped ship by 3. This includes all weapons that are not missiles, torpedoes, death weapons, and bombs.
#Level 36
Anti-Matter Drives - Allows equipped ships to travel at 7 parsecs per turn and gives a maximum number of movement squares in space combat of 3.
#Level 38
Sub Space Teleporter - Equipped ships always move first in combat and can teleport directly to any square on the battle grid.
#Level 40
Ionic Pulsar - Deals 10 damage to all adjacent and diagonally adjacent ships plus 1 damage per 2 attacking ships.
#Level 41
Thorium Cells - Allows ships to travel an infinite distance from their owner's colonies.
#Level 42
Inter-phased Drives - Allows equipped ships to travel at 8 parsecs per turn and gives a maximum number of movement squares in space combat of 4.
#Level 43
Sub Space Interdictor - Nullifies the functionality of all sub-space teleporters in use over the owner's planets.
#Level 45
Combat Transporters - Ensures at least 50% of transporters land on the targeted planet.
#Level 46
Inertial Nullifier - Increases the maneuverability rating of the equipped ship by 4 and increases the maximum number of movement squares in space combat by 2.
#Level 48
Hyper Drives - Allows equipped ships to travel at 9 parsecs per turn and gives a maximum number of movement squares in space combat of 4.
#Level 50
Displacement Device - Causes 33% of all attacks to miss the target automatically.